Rules
The link for downloading the data for phase-1 will soon be made available to the participants. Participants must register and agree to data usage terms before downloading the data. We will soon be publishing this data on The Cancer Imaging Archive. A supporting data article will be released in Elsevier Data-in-brief, DOI would be updated soon on the challenge website. All participants are requested to cite this data article in any publication which uses the challenge dataset.

There will be no deadline extension for submissions in phase two and phase three.

The test datasets will be made available only to the qualifying teams of Phase 2 and 3 of this competition and will not be distributed freely.

The following five papers need to be cited if the dataset provided in this challenge is used for any publication:

Anubha Gupta, Rahul Duggal, Ritu Gupta, Lalit Kumar, Nisarg Thakkar, and Devprakash Satpathy, “GCTI-SN: Geometry-Inspired Chemical and Tissue Invariant Stain Normalization of Microscopic Medical Images,”, under review.

Ritu Gupta, Pramit Mallick, Rahul Duggal, Anubha Gupta, and Ojaswa Sharma, "Stain Color Normalization and Segmentation of Plasma Cells in Microscopic Images as a Prelude to Development of Computer Assisted Automated Disease Diagnostic Tool in Multiple Myeloma," 16th International Myeloma Workshop (IMW), India, March 2017.

Rahul Duggal, Anubha Gupta, Ritu Gupta, Manya Wadhwa, and Chirag Ahuja, “Overlapping Cell Nuclei Segmentation in Microscopic Images UsingDeep Belief Networks,” Indian Conference on Computer Vision, Graphics and Image Processing (ICVGIP), India, December 2016.
Rahul Duggal, Anubha Gupta, and Ritu Gupta, “Segmentation of overlapping/touching white blood cell nuclei using artificial neural networks,” CME Series on Hemato-Oncopathology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, India, July 2016.
Rahul Duggal, Anubha Gupta, Ritu Gupta, and Pramit Mallick, "SD-Layer: Stain Deconvolutional Layer for CNNs in Medical Microscopic Imaging," In: Descoteaux M., Maier-Hein L., Franz A., Jannin P., Collins D., Duchesne S. (eds) Medical Image Computing and Computer-Assisted Intervention − MICCAI 2017, MICCAI 2017. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Part III, LNCS 10435, pp. 435–443. Springer, Cham. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-66179-7_50.